No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MMPM-001

## MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (MP)

## Term-End Examination December, 2023

MMPM-001 : CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

(Weightage : 70%)

Note : ( i ) Attempt any three questions from Section A.

- ( ii ) Section B is compulsory.

- ( iii ) All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) Define and discuss learning from marketing point of view.
2. (b) What are the essential features of classical learning approach ?
2. Describe three types  of  motivational  conflicts with example of your choice.

3. How will an urban consumer differ from a rural consumer in similar purchase needs  ?  Are  the differences really substantial ?
4. Write short notes on any two of the following :
3. (a) Behavioural Intention (BI) model
4. (b) Reference groups
5. (c) Cross  cultural  understanding  of  consumer
6. behaviour
7. Concept of Information Processing

## Section-B

5. E-consumers  are  those  who  buy  goods  and services online or through other electronic systems like computer networks or mobile apps. E-commerce gives customers access to advantages like interactive communications, quick  delivery,  and  more  customization  that they wouldn't otherwise have. The  product information available online is more condensed and  comes  from  a  variety  of  websites.  Users now have more options for selecting and comparing  the  goods  they  want  to  buy  or  for finding and choosing specialized goods. Such an
2. (d)

open market would boost competition and benefit industrial buyers by encouraging better quality  and  a  wider  selection  of  items.  These options make online or internet buying simple, affordable,  and  secure.  On  the  other  hand, understanding  online  consumer  behaviour  is now considered essential by marketers. In view of this answer, the following questions.

## Questions

- (a) How is the online buying process different from shopping at a physical store ? Explain.
- (b) Do  customers'  social  classes  and  life  cycle stages have an effect on their online purchasing behaviour ? Discuss.