No. of Printed Pages : 6

## MASTER OF BUSINESS

## ADMINISTRATION (MBA) Term-End Examination December, 2025

MMPM-001 : CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note : Attempt any three questions from Section  A.  Section  B  is  compulsory.  All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. Imagine  yourself  as  a  retailer  of  Classy Home  Decor.  How  would  you  position  the product  to  a  specific  lifestyle  as  a  part  of VALS lifestyle segmentation ?
2. What  is  meant  by  consumer  perception  ? Discuss the factors of perception which help in formation of image in the minds  of consumers. Explain with example.
3. Critically  analyze  Maslow's Need Theory of Motivation. What are the major limitations of this theory ?
4. How  is  learning  undertaken  as  a  part  of information processing ? Discuss the different stages of learning with examples.

## 5. Case Study :

## Family Influences

A  certain  store  was  keeping  a  number  of brands of washing machines. They had washing  machines  to  cater  to  the  needs  of all  the  segments  of  the  society.  They  were stocking IFB, Videocon, BPL, National, Godrej, and local made washing machines as well. They had both automatic, semiautomatic and manual machines. The automatic  machines  were  bought  by  the higher  income  group.  The  middle  income group were content with semi-automatic machines. Manual hand operated machines were for the lower class of clientele, and also

## Section-B

those living in the rural areas, where electrification was not complete or the electricity went off for days together.

It  was  observed  that  when customers  came to  buy  an  automatic  machine,  they  usually came  with  their  spouses  and  they  looked mainly  at  the  colour,  style  of  functioning, electric consumption, care for handling, price factors, etc. Many customers would not buy  on  their  first  visit.  They  would  come back  after  an  interval  of  time,  and  bought the  machine  after  careful  considerations  of the  attributes  that  they  were  looking  for. Many  would  lower  their  choice,  and  come back to buy semi-automatic, instead of automatic machines.

The sale was observed to be highest during marriage seasons and at festival times. There  was  a  great  influence  of  the  housewives  in  buying  these,  as  they  were  the ultimate users.

With  a  lot  of  information  imparted  by  the media, and the children being exposed to it for several hours, in a day, They seemed to have a good knowledge of the attributes, and had a great say in the purchases and their opinions  were  also  given  weightage  by  the parents.

Since a chain store is more interested in the sales  to  materialize,  rather  than  pushing any particular brand, the salesmen are directed to satisfy  the  customers  or  the family. This should be their first consideration.

## Questions :

- (a) Do you feel that group interaction helps the  buyer  too,  in  his  decision-making process ? Elaborate.
- (b) What should be the role of the marketeer in the above case regarding, advertisement, promotion, persuasion and closing the sales ?

× × × × ×