No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MMPM-003

## MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (MP)

## Term-End Examination December, 2023

## MMPM-003 : PRODUCT AND BRAND MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Note : (

Maximum Marks : 100

(Weightage : 70%)

- i ) Answer any three questions from Section ' A' . Section ' B' is compulsory.
- ( ii ) All questions carry equal marks .

## Section-A

1. (a) Explain the following terms with an example :
2. (i) Trademark/Logo
3. (ii) Skimming Pricing Strategy
4. (iii)  Brand Associations
5. (iv)  Brand Asset Valuator
6. (b) Define what constitutes a new product and explain  how  the  responsibility  for  New Product  Development  is  assigned  at  the corporate level.

2. (a) With the help of suitable examples, discuss the possible situations where generation of new products ideas occur both internal as well as external to the firm.
2. (b) What  options  of  different  appeals  that  a marketer can use to reinforce a strong and positive perception for the purpose of building  a  strong  brand  image  among  its customers ? Explain.
3. (a) List the brand building blocks and explain how  important  these  blocks  are  in  the consumer decision-making process.
4. (b) What is brand hierarchy ? Comment on the different  levels  of  brand  hierarchy  which are accessible for a marketer.
4. Answer any three from the following :
6. (a) Services Differentiation
7. (b) Utility of Display Matrices
8. (c) Generation of New Product Ideas
9. (d) Advantages of Branding the Commodities
10. (e) Composite Measure of Brand Equity

## Section-B

5. (a) Discuss the important criteria used to screen new product ideas. How would you use product profile rating to a new product idea ? Illustrate.
2. (b) Comment on the need for brand valuation and the methods available for a marketer.