No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (MBA) Term-End Examination

## December, 2024

## MMPM-003 : PRODUCT AND BRAND MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

(Weightage : 70%)

Note : ( i ) Answer any three questions from Section A. Section B is compulsory.

- ( ii ) All questions carry equal marks .

## Section-A

1. (a) What  is  product  life  cycle  ?  How  does  it guide  the  marketer  in  making  marketing strategy ?

- (b) Discuss the PLC  stages, characteristics and strategies used at different stages with examples.
2. (a) What  are  the  different  steps  involved  in New Product Development process ? Discuss each step and give an appropriate example.
- (b) Why  new  product  launches  often  fail  ? Discuss.
3. (a) What  is  Brand  Extension  ?  Discuss  the types  of  brand  extensions.  Give  examples in support of your answer.
- (b) Discuss the six-step process of brand extension.
4. Write short notes on any three of the following :
- (a) Levers for enhancing brand equity
- (b) Developing brand architecture strategy
- (c) Standardised approach to global branding-issues and advantages
- (d) BCG matrix for product portfolio analysis
- (e) Product line extensions and stretching decision

## Section-B

5. (a) Ascertain the product lines of any three top detergent companies in India. Suggest their product line and in that which products they should drop and why ?
2. (b) Pick up the strongest brand in the following categories :
3. (i) FMCG
4. (ii) Financial services
5. (iii)  Consumer electronics

Based on what you have studied, and your own  experience,  find  out  the  factors  that have  contributed  to  this  market  position for each brand identified by you.

## × × × × × × ×