## MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (MP) Term-End Examination December, 2025 MMPM-003 : PRODUCT AND BRAND MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note :  (i) Answer  any three questions  from Section A. Section B is compulsory.

- (ii) All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) How is a product different from a brand ?
2. (b) How does the GE Planning Grid differ from the BCG Matrix in Portfolio Analysis ?
2. (a) Describe important criteria used to screen new product ideas.
4. (b) Select  any  product  category  (Lets  say for oral care) of your choice and develop at  least three concepts  that  you  think will be feasible and explain the concept development and testing in their context.
3. (a) Discuss  the  various  pricing  strategies that  are  available  for  the  marketers  of any new product.

- (b) What are the various brand decisions a firm  has  to  take  as  a  part  of  branding policy ? Explain with examples.
4. Write short notes on any three of the following :
- (a) Brand Name Selection Process
- (b) Developing Brand Equity
- (c) Brand Identity
- (d) Brand Positioning
- (e) Perceived Quality

## Section-B

5. (a) What is Brand Extension ? Analyse the brand extension strategy of Tata e-car ? What are the steps involved in launching a brand extension ?

- (b) Cell  phones are  a part of our everyday lives.  At  what  stage  of  PLC  (Product Life Cycle) do you think they are ? What marketers are doing to sustain them in future  using  what  product  strategy  ? Discuss thinking futuristically.

× × × × ×