No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MMPM-005

## MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (MP)

## Term-End Examination December, 2023

MMPM-005 : MARKETING OF SERVICES

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage  : 70%

Note : Attempt any three questions from Section A. Section B is compulsory. All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) How do services differ from products ?
2. (b) What  are  the  marketing  implications  of service characteristics ?
2. (a) Differentiate between high-contact, medium-contact and low-contact services.
4. (b) How  are people's roles differ in these services ? Explain with examples.

3. Describe   the gaps model and explain the significance  of  the  five  gaps  that  the  model identities.
4. Write short notes on any two of the following :
3. (a)
4. Pricing Tripod
5. (b) Role  of  physical  evidence  in  marketing  of services
6. (c)
7. (d)
8. Positive/Negative Advocacy
9. Impact of technology on customer services

## Section-B

5. Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation  (IRCTC)  offers  a  quota  of  'Tatkal' as  well  as  'Premium  Tatkal'  for  online  ticket bookings.  The  main  distinction  between  these two  types  of  ticket  booking  is  in  the  ticket prices. Tatkal ticket charges have been set as a percentage of fare at 10% of the basic fare for second  class  and  30%  of  the  basic  fare  for  all other  classes,  subject  to  the  minimum  and maximum  prices. Tickets for  the  Premium Tatkal service, which is only available on certain  trains,  have  dynamic  fare  pricing  for

classes. The Premium Tatkal fare refers to the fare component that increases with subsequent bookings.  Booking  a  Premium  Tatkal  ticket  is much  more  expensive  than  booking  a  Tatkal ticket due to dynamic fare pricing. Ticket prices vary depending on the booking rate and availability of seats.

## Questions :

- (a) Justify the differential pricing strategy for services.
- (b) What are the possible advantages or disadvantages  of  differential  pricing  over uniform pricing ?