No. of Printed Pages : 15

## MMPM-005

## MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (MP)

## Term-End Examination December, 2024

MMPM-005 : MARKETING OF SERVICES

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note : ( i ) Answer any three questions from Section A.

- ( ii ) Section B is compulsory.

## Section-A

1. What  is  the  difference  between  products  and services  ?  What  are  the  reasons  for  growth  of service sector in India ? Give a classification of services. 25
2. Explain  the  marketing  mix  for  services  with suitable examples. 25

3. (a) What are the distribution strategies applied in services marketing ? 15
2. (b) Assume that you are running a coffee shop. What are the essential elements of 'Physical  Evidence'  you  would  incorporate in your coffee shop ? 10
4. Define five dimensions of service quality model. Explain them with suitable examples. 25
5. Write short notes on any two of the following :

12 1 2 +12 1 2

- (a) Methods of promotion of services
- (b) Role of customer in service process
- (c) Service positioning
- (d) Challenges in service communication
- (e) Pricing of services

## Section-B

## 6. Case Study :

Accellion  was  a  young,  high-technology  firm with leading-edge technology in the distributed file storage, management, and delivery market space. Still new to the industry, the firm aimed to  become  the  global  backbone  for  the  next generation of Internet-based applications.

Accellion's main value proposition to the world's largest enterprises ("the Global 2000") , as well as to Internet-based providers of premium  content,  was  to  allow  them  to  serve their users faster, increase operational efficiencies,  and  lower  total  costs.  Specifically, Accellion  customers  could  improve  the  access time  for  downloading  and  uploading  files  by more than 200 percent. This performance improvement was achieved by locating an intelligent storage and file management system at  the  "edges  of  the  Internet"  and  thereby delivering content from regions located closer to MMPM-005

the end-user. The typical time-consuming routing  through  many  servers  and  hubs  could be avoided using Accellion's infrastructure.

The  need  for an  Internet infrastructure to deliver  high  bandwidth  content  to  end-users had  never  been  greater.  There  was  a  trend toward multimedia and personalized Web content,  all  of  which  could  not  be  delivered efficiently by existing infrastructure, which routed  data  through  the  congested  network  of servers that form the backbone of the Internet. This prompted Accellion to develop and launch a new service : distributed file storage, management,  and  delivery.  Accellion  provided an applications platform that resided on independent servers, which were directly connected to the users' Internet Service Providers (ISPs), thereby avoiding the congested "centers" of the Internet. This decreased access time and allowed Accellion to distribute  specialized  content  and  applications more efficiently.

To effectively market Accellion's value proposition, Warren J. Kaplan, Accellion's CEO, and S. Mohan, its Chief Strategist and Founder,  felt  that  in  addition  to  its  leadingedge technology, key success factors for Accellion's aggressive growth strategy were excellence in service delivery and high customer satisfaction. They envisioned that customers  would  prefer  to  leverage  Accellion's technology  and  partnerships  instead  of  having to manage the details of deploying, maintaining,  and  upgrading  their  own  storage infrastructure for distributed Internet applications. To build a customer-driven culture  and  to  communicate  service  excellence credibly to the market, Accellion aimed  to harness the power of service guarantees.

Cost-effective services for improving performance and reliability were becoming critical,  as  the  widespread  use  of  multimedia and  other  large  files  increased  exponentially. The  value  proposition  was  clearly  attractive, but  how  could  Accellion  convince  prospective clients that its technology and service actually could deliver what they promised ?

Mohan  felt  that  a  Quality  of  Service  (QoS) Guarantee would be a powerful tool to make its promises credible and, at the same time, push his  team  to  deliver  what  has  been  promised.

Mark Ranford, Accellion's Director for Product Management, and Mohan spearheaded the development of the QoS Guarantee. They finally launched the QoS Guarantee (shown in Exhibit 1)

## Exhibit-1 : Accellion's Service Guarantee

## QUALITY OF SERVICE GUARANTEE

The  Accellion  Quality  of  Service  Guarantee defines  Accellion's  assurance  and  commitment to  providing  the  Customer  with  value  added Service and  is incorporated into Accellion's Customer  Contract.  The  definition  of  terms used herein is the same as those found in the Customer Contract.

## 1. Performance Guarantee

Accellion  guarantees  that  the  performance  of the  Network  in  uploading  and  downloading content, as a result of using  the Accellion Service, will be no less than 200 percent of that which  is  achieved  by  a  benchmark  origin  site being accessed  from  the  edges  of  the  Internet. For all purposes herein, performance measurement tests will be conducted by Accellion.

## 2. Availability Guarantee

Accellion guarantees 100 percent service availability, excluding force majeure and scheduled maintenance for customers who have opted for our replication services.

## 3. Customer Service Guarantee

Should Accellion fail to meet the service levels set out in Sections 1 and 2 above, Accellion will credit the customer's account with one month's service  fee  for  the  month  affected  when  the failure(s) occurred, provided the customer gives written notice to Accellion of such failure within  five  days  from  the  date  such  failure occurred. The customer's failure to comply with this requirement  will  forfeit the customer's right to receive such credit.

Accellion will notify the customer no less than 48  hours  (2  days)  in  advance  of  scheduled maintenance. If the service becomes unavailable for any other reason, Accellion will promptly  notify the customer  and  take all necessary action to restore the service.

Accellion  maintains  a  24-hour  support  center and will provide the customer with a response to any inquiry in relation to the service no more than  2  hours  from  the  time  of  receipt  of  such query by customer service.

## 4. Security and Privacy Policy

Accellion has complete respect for the customer's  privacy  and  that  of  any  customer data  stored  in  Accellion  servers.  The  Accellion service  does  not  require  customers  to  provide any end-user private details for the data stored on  the  servers.  All  information  provided  to Accellion  by  the  customer  is  stored  for  the customer's sole benefit. Accellion will not share, disclose, or sell any personally identifiable information  to  which  it  may  have  access  and will ensure that the customer's information and data [are] kept secure.

Disclosure of customer's information or data in Accellion's possession shall only be made where such  disclosure is necessary  for  compliance with  a  Court  order,  to  protect  the  rights  or property of Accellion and to enforce the terms of use of the service as provided in the contract.

Accellion will ensure that the customer's information  and  data  [are]  kept  secure  and protected from unauthorized access or improper use, which includes taking all reasonable steps to verify the customer's identity before granting access.

Exhibit-2  :  E-mail  to  all  Accellion  Staff Ammounting the Launch of the QoS Guarantee

Dear Team,

I am  pleased to torward to everyone our industry's leading Quality of Service guarantee (QoS).  Please  read  it  over  very  carefully.  You will find it to be very aggressive and it puts the ownership  on  everyone  in  this  company  to deliver.  Customers  don't  want  a  Service  Level Agreement (SLA); they just want their network up  and  running  all  the  time.  That  is  why  we have created this no questions asked guarantee.  This  type  of  guarantee  has  proven successful  in  other  industries  where  service  is key  to  success  (e.g.,  Industry  Leaders  such  as Gartner Group, LL Bean, Nordstrom, etc.).

As a member of the Accellion team, you are key to our client's satisfaction.

Thanks in advance for your support in making our clients and ourselves successful. Stating that "it is a revolutionary statement of our commitment to the customer to do whatever it  takes  to  ensure  satisfaction."  The  official launch  of  the  guarantee  was  announced  to  all staff by e-mail (Exhibit 2).

Their QoS Guarantee, however, was just part of Accellion's push for operational excellence. Many  factors worked  together to keep the company  focused  on  its  clients  and  providing the best possible service, so that the staff could create a large and loyal customer base for their innovative product. Thus, it was very important to raise awareness for Accellion's unique value proposition  and  convince  the  early  adopters  of the advantages.

Accellion's  customers  reacted  positively.  One customer  stated,  "Hey  look  at  this.  I  haven't seen anything like it. No one offers 100 percent availability. That's tremendous." Another customer exclaimed, "You must really be confident in your service. This really is risk free now,  isn't  it  ?"  Accellion  was  committed  to  its guarantee  and  strongly  believed  that  having the best network and technology partners would enable it to deliver on its promise.

## Questions :

- (i) What  is  the  marketing  impact  of  a  welldesigned service guarantee ? 6
- (ii) Evaluate the design of Accellion's guarantee. How  effective will it be in communicating service excellence to potential  and  current  customers  ?  Would you  recommend any  changes to its  design or implementation ? 7
- (iii)  Will the guarantee be successful in creating  a  culture  for  service  excellence within Accellion ? What else may be needed for achieving such a culture ? 6

- (iv) Do you think customers might take advantage  of  this  guarantee  and  "stage" service failures to invoke the guarantee ? If yes, how could Accellion minimize potential cheating on its guarantee ? 6

## × × × × × × ×