No. of Printed Pages : 5

## MASTER OF BUSINESS

## ADMINISTRATION (MBA) Term-End Examination December, 2025

MMPM-009 : RETAIL MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note : Answer any three questions from Section A. Section B is compulsory. All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) Discuss the importance of retailing and its role in Indian economy. How  is

Urban  Retailing  different  from  Rural Retailing ?

- (b) Explain Dialectic Process Theory of Retailing with example.
2. (a) Discuss the benefits of Independent Retailing and Chain Store Retailing.
- (b) What is franchising in retailing ? Explain  different  forms  of  franchising with their advantages and limitations.
3. (a) What  is the importance of locational decision in retailing ? What factors play a significant role in the locational  choice of a retail store ?
- (b) Discuss  visual  merchandising  and  its important  components  to  leverage  its benefits.

4.  Write short notes on any three of the following :
2. (a) Atmospherics of a Retail Store
3. (b) Quantitative  measures  of  retail  space performance
4. (c) Vendor Relationship Management (VRM)
5. (d) ABC Analysis for Inventory Management in Retail
6. (e) 5C approach for successful people management in retail setting.

## Section-B

5. Retail pricing strategy is the process of determining the optimal price for the products  or  services  sold  by  retailers.  This involves  understanding  the  target  market,

analyzing the competition and consideration of Cost of Goods Sold (CoGS). The difficulty of predicting consumer behaviour and economic conditions of the market also play an  important  role  in  determining  prices. Therefore, establishing pricing strategies requires a data driven approach that considers  the  target  market,  competition, cost  structure  and  pricing  objective.  Based on  the  above  information  suggest  pricing strategy  that  can  be  used  in  the  following situations :

- (a) Launching a new FMCG product through Retail Store in North India.

- (b) Online Retailing of Shoes.
- (c) To take on the competition in the market.
- (d) To increase loyalty of consumers toward the retail store.

× × × × ×

P. T. O.