[ 1 ]

No. of Printed Pages : 4

MMPM

-

009

## MMPM-009

## MASTER OF BUSINESS

## ADMINISTRATION (MBA) Term-End Examination December, 2023

MMPM-009 : RETAIL MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note : Answer any three questions from section-A. Section-B is compulsory. All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) Explain the following terms with an example :
2. (i) Retailing
3. (ii)  Automated Vending Machine
4. (iii)  SCM
5. (iv)  CRM

- (b) Explain the  term  new/emerging  customer. Why is it  essential  for  retailers  to  have  a sound  knowledge  of  these  set  of  buyers  ? Highlight their emerging pattern of consumer  behaviour  in  the  era  of  Omni channel retailing.
2. (a) Elucidate the concept of wheel of retailing. Discuss  the  different  phases  involved  in the wheel of retailing theory.
- (b) Define franchising. Explain with a suitable example the scope and competitive advantages and disadvantages that franchising has over other business formats.
3. (a) Define atmospherics in retailing. Why the role of planning for atmospherics is gaining importance  ?  Discuss  the  key  components that a retailer should consider while planning for the atmospherics.
- (b) How  important  is  sourcing  function  and inventory management  for  a  retailer ? Explain. Discuss the steps involved in sourcing process and highlight the importance of each step.

4. Answer any three from the following :
2. (a) Brick and Click model of retailing
3. (b) Cooperatives for consumers
4. (c) Private vs . National Brands
5. (d) Atmospherics in the context of E-tailing
6. (e) Inventory Report

## Section-B

5. (a) What are the major activities performed by a retailer in the following situations :
2. (i) A multibrand footwear retailer
3. (ii) Single brand retailer of white goods ?
4. (b) Atmospherics  in  retail  business  refers  to the atmosphere or mood that you create in your  store  by  way  of  introducing  various elements and effects. It allows you to build and  develop  your  store  personality-  the identity that gives life to your retail brand and  a  tool  to  differentiate  yourself  from your competitors.

- (i) What  are the various elements of atmospherics that retailers use to attract footfalls ?
- (ii) Identify  the  elements  that  you  would personally recommend in the following situation and why ?
- (a) Family restaurant
- (b) Multiplex