## MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (MBA) Term-End Examination

## December, 2024

## MMPM-009 : RETAIL MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

( Weightage : 70%

)

Note : Answer  any three questions  from  Section  A. Section B is compulsory.

## Section-A

1. (a) What is retailing ? Explain with a suitable example how a retailer plays the role of an intermediary  in  the  distribution  of  goods and services to the end customers. 10

- (b) Explain the terms traditional retail, modern  retail  and  rural  retail.  Discuss their  features,  scope  and  future  growth prospects. 10
2. (a) Discuss your understanding of performance  audit  in  the  context  of  retail business. Explain commonly used performance  management  frameworks  for the same. 10
- (b) Why independent retailers are the most common type of retailer found everywhere ? Justify giving reasons. 10
3. (a) Elaborate  on  the  significance  of  locational decision  for  an  upcoming  construction  of multiplex/single screen cinema hall in your location. 10
- (b) How  important  is  sourcing  function  and inventory management  for  a  retailer ? Discuss the steps involved in sourcing process  and  highlight  the  importance  of each step. 10

4. Write short notes on any three of the following :

6+7+7

- (a) Retail store as a social entity
- (b) Departmental store
- (c) Retail pricing objectives
- (d) Modern elements of communication mix in the context of retail
- (e) Visual merchandising

## Section-B

5. Chellaram's furnishings are a leading manufacturer of textile furnishings and is currently supplying its products to large retail outlets in major cities in the country. As retail sector  is  growing  and  expanding  with  every passing  day  and  adding  new  and  emerging format,  the  company  has  decided  to  start  a chain  of  retail  outlets  throughout  the  country with an investment to the tune of one thousand crore.

## Questions :

- (a) What  kind  of  retail  format(s)  would  you consider  for  the  company  keeping  in  view the  scale  of  business  and  the  quantum  of the investment earmarketed for the proposed marketing channel ? 13

- (b) Discuss the traditional as well as the modern  elements  of  retail  communication mix that would be relevant for the new line of business. 13
- (c) Identify and discuss non-store retail formats appropriate for the company. 14

## × × × × × × ×