## BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (BANKING

## MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION/MASTER OF AND FINANCE) (MBA/MBF) Term-End Examination December, 2025

MMPC-020 : BUSINESS ETHICS AND CSR

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note

- :  (i) Attempt any five questions.

- (ii) All questions carry equal marks.

1. Describe the importance of corporate ethics in the modern society. What does distinguish business ethics from law ? Discuss with examples. 10+10
2. Explain with the help of diagram navigation  wheel  for  ethics.  Also,  briefly describe  Kidder's  nine  step  check  points  to tide over the complexities of ethical decisionmaking. 10+10
3. Does ethical theory apply to actual managerial decision-making situations ? Give instances from modern corporate practices to illustrate your views. 20

4. State some organizational factors in ethical decision-making. Briefly explain what  are  the  ethical  issues  in  corporate lobbying and the 'revolving door' phenomena in a government business relationship ?

10+10

5. 'Corporate social responsibility is an alternative to government setting rules and regulations.' Explain with relevant examples  how  government  is  encouraging business to adopt CSR practices. 20
6. Describe  the  prevalent  approaches  to  CSR and social activism. 20

P. T. O.

7. Discuss some CSR activities that companies undertake which could be related to SDGs. Also briefly state the need and scope of CSR Audit. 10+10
8. Discuss  the  Triple  Bottomline  Approach  of CSR. Explain how does it lead to sustainable development. 20

× × × × ×