No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MMPM-008

## MASTER OF BUSINESS

## ADMINISTRATION (MBA)

## Term-End Examination December, 2024

MMPM-008 : RURAL MARKETING

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

(Weightage : 70%)

Note : ( i ) Attempt any three questions from Section A.

- ( ii ) Section B is compulsory.
- ( iii ) All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. What are some of the strategic factors important for marketers to keep in mind about rural  environment  when  they  plan  to  enter rural markets ? Discuss.

2. (a) Explain the factors affecting rate of adoption of innovation in rural market.
2. (b) How would these apply to a service like life insurance and digital payment wallets offered to the rural market ?
3. (a) Explain the concept of promotional pricing in the context of rural markets.
4. (b) Discuss the implications of seasonal demand on rural distribution with examples.
4. Write short notes on any three of the following :
6. (a) The impact of technology on rural marketing
7. (b) Product differentiation for rural markets
8. (c) Rural marketing research
9. (d) Hierarchy of intermediaries in rural markets
10. (e) Sales promotion methods for rural markets

## Section-B

5. MSL  company  is  credited  for  pioneering  the automobile revolution in the country. The company is engaged in the business of

## D-3218/MMPM-008

manufacturing  and  selling  passenger  vehicles. With  a single model  M-800  as  its  modest starting  point,  MSL  now  boasts  an  extensive portfolio of cars with a variety of variants. The company  started  with  3-4  cars  but  today  they have  over  one  dozen  cars  in  five  categories (Hatch  back,  Sedan  cars,  SUVs,  MPVs  and Commercial  vehicles). With  an eye on the future, the company wants to increase its share of  the  Indian  SUV  market.  The  company  has realized  that  there  is  significant  potential  for SUV market expansion in rural markets. As a marketing  manager,  you  have  been  assigned the task of developing marketing strategies for rural markets.

## Questions :

- (a) What suggestions would you make regarding distribution and pricing strategies ? Justify your suggestions.
- (b) Suggest  a  promotion  strategy,  including the  use  of  digital  media  for  SUV  market expansion.

× × × × × × ×