No. of Printed Pages : 8

## MMPM-008

## MASTER OF BUSINESS

## ADMINISTRATION (MBA)

## Term-End Examination December, 2025

MMPM-008 : RURAL MARKETING

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

- Note : (i) This paper consists of two Sections : Section A and Section B.
- (ii) Attempt  any three questions  from Section A. All questions in this Section carry equal marks (20 marks each).
- (iii)  Section  B  is  compulsory.  It  carries 40 marks.

## Section-A

1. Despite  the  digital revolution  and  social media proliferation in India now, rural consumers in India display consumption

traits distinctly different from those of urban consumers. Discuss the ways in which rural  consumers  display  distinct  traits  and explain how these differences would impact marketing  planning  for  marketers  of  the following in rural markets :

- (a) Consumer  durables  like  refrigerators and television
- (b) readymade clothes
2. (a) Critically  comment  upon  the  influence of  factors  like  culture,  social  class  and reference groups on the buying behaviour of rural consumers using suitable examples to illustrate your answer.
- (b) Explain how developments like financial inclusion and community empowerment have impacted rural consumption.
3. (a) What  are  the  main  factors  that  have been  found  to  impact  the  adoption  of innovations  among  rural  consumers  ?

How,  in  your  view  have  these  trends impacted the adoption of insurance and health services ?

- (b) A large corporate chain hospital is planning  to  set  up  branch  hospitals  in some  villages  around  its  headquarters in  Bangalore.  What  are  the  inputs  on adopter categories and adoption behaviour will they need to consider in their service planning ?
4. (a) Who  are  the  participants  in  the  rural distribution  process  and  what  is  the power dynamics prevalent among these participants ?
- (b) How would you assess and monitor the performance of your rural channel members  in  case  of  the  distribution  of household  consumer  durable  products like  gas  burners  or  pressure  cooker  ? Justify the choice of the measures proposed by you.

## CASE STUDY

Internet  users  in  rural  India  are  around  227 million and the numbers are increasing day by day. Agriculture industry businesses are looking for  different  ways  to  connect  and  engage  with farmers.  Brands  are  using  different  platforms and communication pieces to achieve their objectives.

In 2022, Netafilm launched a digital marketing strategy  for  Flexnet  flexible  pipes  for  use  by farmers,  which  not  only  created  awareness  for the product but also helped to generate sales.

## About Netafim

Netafim  is  a  global  leader  in  smart  irrigation based  solutions.  Their  products  and  services range from community irrigation, micro irrigation, greenhouse and digital farming solutions to farmers across the globe. This case refers  to  their  launch  campaign  for  a  flexible

## Section-B

irrigation  pipe  product  called  Flexnet,  initially in Maharashtra and Haryana

## Objective of the Campaign

-  Creating a buzz about the product
-  To  launch  FlexNet  flexible  pipes  through digital initiatives
-  Create  awareness  and  communicate  piping solution effectively
-  Drive  traction  and  generate  leads  for  the product

## FlexNet Strategy

-  Crafting the communication strategy
-  Commuting  the  value proposition of the product
-  Product comparison with the available options

## The Campaign - Farming Simplified

The company narrates its campaign strategy in the  following  words  "After  doing  research  and talking to farmers we realised that it's a tough task  to  setup  pipes,  move  pipes  and  manage pipes  within  farms.  Also,  farmers  are  worried about  carrying  these  pipes,  storing  pipes  and durability,  so  considering  all  these  aspects  we came up with the campaign thought #FarmingSimplified and narrated a story which showed that doing farming is now simplified.

We started the campaign with teasers by asking few questions :

Teaser  1Can  farming  become  simpler  ?  and sharing illustrative videos to illustrate the simplicity brought in by the product

Teaser 2Can  there  be  a  cost-effective  way  to do farming ? And demonstrating the product as a highly cost effective solution

Teaser  3Can  farming  be  more  innovative  ? And  showcasing  the  innovative  solution  to  the irrigation operations made possible through these flexible pipes.

The teasers were launched in both Marathi and Hindi

## FlexNet Launch

The  product  was  then  launched  with  a  film articulating the performance, flexibility, durability, ease with connectors and low labour cost  for  entire  irrigation  system.  The  film  was made accessible on YouTube to make it available to smartphone users, which now form bulk  of  the  farmer  population  in  the  areas covered for the initial launch.

Multilingual Strategy for Different Geographies After we launched the film, we crafted a multilingual strategy to communicate with different inputs on the product features including :

-  Durability
-  Lower Transportation and Storage Cost
-  No Snaking or Kinking
-  Leakage-free
-  Growing higher and better yields in a more sustainable way
-  Labour saving
-  Low investment and high returns
-  Less wastage of water
-  Saves time and energy

These pieces were communicated through short videos in Hindi &amp; Marathi across geographies.

## The Impact

Impressive  figures  on  reach,  engagement  and leads were obtained, sales conversion was however low.

Engagement

2.1+Mn Leads

1,855

Sales

110+

5. (a) How would you advise the company on rural  promotion  of  the  product  as  they prepare  for  a  national  launch  ?  What modifications would you suggest in the campaign objectives, advertising themes  and  the  media  to  be  used  for promotion?
2. (b) What  measures  would  you  suggest  for measuring the effectiveness of your national rural promotion plan and why ?

× × × × ×