No. of Printed Pages : 5

## MMPM-002

## MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (MBA) Term-End Examination

## December, 2025

MMPM-002 : SALES MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note : (i) Answer  any three questions  from Section A.

- (ii) Section B is compulsory.

## Section-A

1. (a) Explain  the  steps  of  personal  selling. Discuss the situations that are conducive for personal selling.

- (b)  Why is the pre-approach stage considered  as  a  planning  stage  in  the personal  selling  process  ?  Discuss  the steps involved in pre-approach planning.
2. What are the key considerations in conducting effective job interviews ? Discuss any two most commonly  used  interview techniques by the sales firms.
3. (a) What are  the  major  objectives  of  sales coaching ? Discuss the benefits of coaching the salespeople.
- (b) Why  is  it  important  to  monitor  and control sales force and their activities ? Mention some of the key parameters for monitoring the sales force.

4. Write short notes on any three of the following :
2. (a)
3. Importance of verbal communication
4. (b) Significance and purpose of sales display
5. (c)
6. (d)
7. (e)
8. Learning styles
9. Qualitative sales forecasting methods
10. Types of sales quotas

## Section-B

5. You  are  the  National  Sales  Manager  for  a large medical products company that sells a broad  line  of  products  to  hospitals.  After several years of fine-tuning your compensation  plan,  you  have  finally  got  it right.  The  program  will  achieve  corporate goals while maximizing sales force

performance.  Salespeople  get  a  salary,  a bonus for fulfilling quota, another bonus for signing new accounts, and a commission on specific medical equipment that the product manager  wants  to  emphasize.  The  sales personnel  are  delighted  with  the  plan,  and sales  are  steadily  growing.  It  appears  that your  division  will  reach  sales  volume  goals for the first time in years.

You  received  a  memo  from  your  new  CFO informing  you  that  your  division  is  losing money  !  He  has  scheduled  a  meeting  with the  directors  for  next  week,  and  you  are required to attend, to discuss the problem.

## Questions :

- (a) What information would you take to the meeting ?

- (b) What might have gone wrong with your compensation plan ?
- (c) Should you develop an alternative compensation plan for next week's meeting  ? Why  or  why  not  ? Give reasons.

× × × × ×

P. T. O.