No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MMPM-002

## MASTER OF BUSINESS

## ADMINISTRATION  (MBA) Term-End Examination

## December, 2024

MMPM-002 : SALES MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note : Answer any three questions from Section A. Section B is compulsory. All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) Explain the following terms with an example :
2. (i) Steps in Pre-approaching Planning
3. (ii)  Written Communication
4. (iii)  Visual Merchandising
5. (iv)  Objectives of Sales Evaluation

- (b) What  is  personal  selling  ?  Explain  the various  personal  selling  approaches  with suitable examples.
2. (a) Pickup two each from traditional and contemporary  recruitment  sources  if  you were to  recruit  sales-cum-service  engineer trainees for an engineering company. What sources would you consider and why ?
- (b) What are the  objectives  of  sales  display  ? Displays are the result of design principles as well as creative and artistic talents. List out and discuss the principles involved.
3. (a) What are the objectives of sales evaluation  ?  Discuss  the  different  reports generated to monitor the sales force.
- (b) Discuss  the  process  of  developing  a  sales organization.  What  are  the  factors  which affect  the  size  of  the  sales  organization  ? Explain with an example.
4. Answer any three from the following :
- (a) Negotiating sales resistance

- (b) Listening skills
- (c) MBTI-personality test
- (d) Sales coaching vs . Induction training
- (e) Sales forecasting for new products

## Section-B

5. What  method  of  sales  compensation  would  be more  appropriate  in  the  following  situations  ? (You can make assumptions, if required)
2. (i)
3. A life insurance salesperson
4. (ii) A computer hardware salesperson
5. (iii)  An account executive who sells commercial time for a television channel

## × × × × × × ×