No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MMPM-002

## MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (MP)

## Term-End Examination December, 2023

MMPM-002 : SALES MANAGEMENT

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

(Weightage : 70%)

Note : Answer any three questions from Section A. Section B is compulsory. All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) Explain the following terms with an example :
2. (i) Pre-approach stage in Sales Process
3. (ii) Non-verbal Communication
4. (iii)  Structured Interview
5. (iv)  Non-financial Incentives
6. (b) Discuss  the  qualities  that  you  consider essential for a salesman to be successful.

2. (a) What  interpersonal  communication  skills are  needed  in  sales  professional  ?  Discuss by taking a specific examples.
2. (b) What constitute compensation ? Why is it essential to have a fair and adequate compensation plan for the company's sales force ? Discuss.
3. (a) Why is it important to monitor and control sales  force  and  their  activities  ?  Mention some of the key parameters for monitoring the sales force.
4. (b) Furnish  a  comparative  account  of  various types of sales quotas and  identify the attributes of a good sales quota plan.
4. Answer any three from the following :
6. (a) Evolution of Sales Management
7. (b) Negotiation Strategies
8. (c) Sales Coaching vs . Induction Training
9. (d) Sales Control : Meaning and Purpose
10. (e) Usefulness of Marketing Cost Analysis

## Section-B

5. (a) Territory  planning  is  major  part  of  total sales planning function in an organization. Discuss its role, scope and various steps to a scientific method of territory planning for any company you are familiar with.
2. (b) Discuss  the  process  of  developing  a  sales organization.  What  are  the  factors  which affect  the  size  of  the  sales  organization  ? Explain with an example.