No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MMPM-006

## MASTER OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (MBA) Term-End Examination

## December, 2024

MMPM-006 : MARKETING RESEARCH

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note : (i) Answer any three questions

from Section A.

- (ii)  Section B is compulsory.

- (iii) All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) Describe  methods  to  convert  a  decision area to research objectives with the help of relevant examples.
2. (b) What  are  the  factors  that  influence  an experiment's  validity  ?  Elucidate  with  the help of examples.

2. (a) What  do  you  understand  by  hypothesis  ? Explain the types and significance of hypothesis in marketing research.
2. (b) Differentiate between correlation and regression. Support your answer with suitable examples.
3. (a) What is cluster analysis ? Describe application of cluster analysis in marketing research.
4. (b) Briefly explain the steps involved in collecting data through Internet-based techniques, citing suitable examples.
4. Write short notes on any three of the following :
6. (a) Sources of secondary data
7. (b) Characteristics of good hypothesis
8. (c) Assumptions of logistic regression
9. (d) Purpose of online marketing research
10. (e) Benefits of social media in marketing research

## Section-B

5. A leading manufacturer of smart phones proposes  to  open  a  chain  of  company  owned retail stores in different cities in northern India :
2. (a) What  secondary  data  available  in  these cities help the company to decide where to
3. locate the retail stores ?
4. (b) Do  you  suggest  that  primary  data  should be collected ? Explain.

## × × × × × × ×