No. of Printed Pages : 3

## MMPM-006

## MASTER OF BUSINESS

## ADMINISTRATION (MBA) Term-End Examination

## December, 2025

MMPM-006 : MARKETING RESEARCH

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note :

- (i) Attempt any three question from Section A.

- (ii) Section B is compulsory.

## Section-A

1. (a) What  do  you  understand  by  market research  ?  Discuss  the  different  stages of marketing research process. 10
2. (b) What are the different ways of conducting marketing research ? Discuss  the  scope  for  outsourcing  the marketing research services in India. 10

2. (a) Discuss  the  main  sources  of  primary and  secondary  data.  Also  discuss  the tools used for collecting data from respondents. 10
2. (b) What do you mean by exploratory and descriptive  research  design  ?  Explain with suitable example. 10
3. (a) Write  a  detailed  note  on  Data  Editing and Tabulation as a part of Data Analysis. 10
4. (b) What is meant by hypothesis ? Explain the types and significance of hypothesis testing in Marketing Research. 10
4. Write  short notes on  any three of the following : 20
6. (a) Cluster analysis
7. (b) Quasi Experimental design
8. (c) Role of Social Media in marketing research
9. (d) Challenges  in  the  application  of  Big data
10. (e) Steps in online marketing research

## Section-B

5. Your are the owner of the Restaurant chain. You want to expand your business with the help  of  the  concept  of  'Cloud  Kitchen'.  The cloud  kitchen  concept  is  very  competitive and competitors use different tools to promote  their  cloud  kitchen  concept.  As  an owner you need some more information for making promotional decisions on social media.
2. (a) Explain the importance of social media for marketing research. 20
3. (b) Discuss the different social media marketing  tools  for  the  promotion  of Restaurant chain. 20

× × × × ×