No. of Printed Pages : 2

## MMPM-006

## MASTER OF BUSINESS Term-End Examination December, 2023

## ADMINISTRATION (MBA) MMPM-006 : MARKETING RESEARCH

Time : 3 Hours

Maximum Marks : 100

Weightage : 70%

Note : Answer any three questions from section-A. Section-B is compulsory. All questions carry equal marks.

## Section-A

1. (a) What are the major reasons for the growing importance of marketing research in India ?
2. (b) What are the different stages of the marketing research process ? Discuss with an example of your choice.
2. 'The research design is a detailed blueprint for the  research  study  that  will  be  conducted  and provides  a  general  outline  of  the  procedures that will be used.' Comment on the statement and explain the various types of research designs  used  in  different  marketing  research situations.

3. (a) Why is tabulation considered an essential activity in a research study ? Discuss.
2. (b) What is meant by hypothesis ? Explain the types  and  significance  of  hypotheses  in marketing research.
4. Write short notes on any three of the following :
4. (a)
5. Ethical issues in marketing research
6. (b)
7. (c)
8. (d)
9. (e)
10. Sources of errors in primary data-collection
11. Uses of qualitative research
12. Editing of Data
13. Factor analysis

## Section-B

5. Assume you have been appointed as the marketing  manager  for  the  recently  launched electric scooter company.
2. (a) What type of market research information would help you promote the e-scooter effectively ?
3. (b) Would  it  be  more  likely  to  use  primary data or secondary data, or a combination of both, for collecting data ? Discuss.

## MMPM-006